---
title: Programming Languages and Theory of Computation
---

Welcome to the PLTC Section. We perform research in programming
language technology and in the theory of computation. Much of our work
involves topics in the intersection of programming language theory
(e.g., algorithmic aspects of programming and formal verification),
and applications (e.g., computer security and privacy, systems,
distributed ledger technology, and fintech).

* [Our page on diku.dk](https://di.ku.dk/english/research/pltc/)

* [Members](https://di.ku.dk/english/staff/vip/researchers_pltc/)

* [List of publications](https://di.ku.dk/english/research/pltc/publikationer/publikationsliste/?pure=en/organisations/by-uuid(a37efafe-316d-489f-8082-621e025b2f73)/publications.html)

### Location

The PLTC Section is located on the [ground floor of HCÃ˜, in Building B](/images/office-plan.png),
Universitetsparken 5, DK-2100 Copenhagen.

### Research interests

We perform research in programming language technology (including ties
to program analysis, type systems and transformation, compiler and
language design, high-performance computing, and meta-programming),
and in the theory of computation (including ties to automata and
computability theory, logic, term rewriting and lambda calculus, and
reversible and quantum computing).

Much of our work involves topics in the intersection of programming
languages and theory (e.g., algorithmic aspects of programming and
formal verification), and applications (e.g., computer security and
privacy, systems, distributed ledger technology, and Fintech).

### Teaching

We offer courses for the bachelor and master's programmes in Computer
Science and Communication & IT. For the MSc programme, we suggest [the
study tracks in *Programming Language and
Systems*](https://studies.ku.dk/masters/computer-science/programme-structure/recommended_studytracks/).

### Projects

TBA

### Suggestions for bachelors projects, masters projects, or POCS

#### Futhark-related projects

[Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org) is a research language developed
by various PLTC researchers.  See [this curated list of GitHub
issues](https://github.com/diku-dk/futhark/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Astudent-viable)
for suggestions on projects related to working on the compiler itself.
Contact [Troels Henriksen](https://sigkill.dk), [Cosmin
Oancea](http://hjemmesider.diku.dk/~zgh600/), or [Martin
Elsman](https://elsman.com/) if you wish to work on one of thse.

#### GPU programming

The [Problem Based Benchmark
Suite](https://github.com/cmuparlay/pbbsbench) is a collection of
benchmark programs that implement various algorithms using parallel
programming.  Currently only implementations for multicore CPUs are
supported.  It would be interesting to port some of these benchmarks
to low-level GPU programming languages, such as CUDA.  While some of
the benchmark programs are fairly trivial, others are highly irregular
and will require some cleverness to implement efficiently on GPUs.
This means the size of the project can be adjusted based on the time
available. Contact: [Troels Henriksen](https://sigkill.dk).
